様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
                              About PowerBASIC 3.x
様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様

        We put the POWER in BASIC!

        PowerBASIC Awarded PC Magazine's Editor's Choice

        "BASIC developers who write DOS application expect the same
        from their programming tools as anyone else does: powerful
        language syntax, a high-productivity development environment,
        a fast and efficient compiler, solid documentation, a good
        selection of third-party tools, and intangibles such as the
        vendor's dedication to the language and its user base.  These
        are tough criteria, and almost every product we looked at came
        up short.  But not PowerBASIC, Version 3.0.  Our Editor's
        Choice in the DOS category, it delivered in almost every
        regard."  PC MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER 28, 1993.

        Instant TSRs, built-in assembler, new data types, BCD
        variables, direct array operations (sort, scan, insert,
        delete), fast math, and many BASIC firsts make this the new
        standard of comparison for BASIC compilers.

        And PowerBASIC continues to improve with each release because
        our development team listens to you, our customers. We respond
        to your needs at every opportunity.  Our latest revision
        offers even tighter, faster code, and the ability to create
        add-on help files which integrate seamlessly into the
        PowerBASIC IDE.

        If you are a DOS BASIC programmer who wants your compiler to
        continue to improve, PowerBASIC is clearly the upgrade choice.
        PowerBASIC is nearly 100% compatible with Quick Basic syntax,
        so the move up to PowerBASIC couldn't be easier.

        Instant TSRs
        ------------
        Create TSRs in an instant with just five lines of code. A 600K
        TSR can "pop-down" to a memory image of just 4K, with
        automatic memory swapping to EMS or virtual disk.  TSRs can be
        activated by practically any stimulus: a hot key, a timer,
        inactivity, even a message from a foreground program. They can
        be safely un-installed under internal program control, or by
        external request.  Even BIOS keystroke stuffing is available.
        In fact, multiple TSRs can activate each other repeatedly,
        with two-way communication throughout.

        Built-in Assembler
        ------------------
        Looking for even better performance?  The new built-in
        Assembler may be just what you need.  For the first time, you
        can write Assembler code and mix it with your PowerBASIC code
        line by line.  Hand optimize the most critical sections for
        absolute performance.  PowerBASIC handles all the details
        automatically.  You can reference your variables, parameters,
        labels and functions by name -- even debug at the CPU register
        level in the expanded environment.

        New Data Types
        --------------
        PowerBASIC offers 11 numeric data types, 3 string data types
        then adds user-defined TYPES and UNIONS as well. There are
        unsigned byte, word, and double word variables. Integers of
        16, 32, and even 64 bits.  Single, double, and extended
        precision floats.  Fixed and Floating-point BCD. Fixed, Flex
        and Dynamic strings.  You can even map Flex strings into
        dynamic structures; they're defined, created, and sized at
        run-time for true database capability.

        BCD Variables
        -------------
        Finally you can eliminate round-off errors, even those
        associated with currency variables in other languages.  You
        aren't forced to 4 decimal places.  Instead you make your
        choice: from 0 to 18 digits.  And always with automatic
        rounding to the precise level of your needs.  In PowerBASIC,
        all BCD variables are implemented as scaled integers for fast
        calculation.

        Array Operations
        ----------------
        Built-in Array, Sort, Scan, Insert, and Delete, with optional
        collate sequencing for international or special character
        sets.

        Fast Math
        ---------
        An optional procedural float package offers startling speed.
        Without a numeric co-processor, it's 40% to 50% faster than
        emulation.  Yet it still uses the '87 when available.  It's
        IEEE-compatible, so you can intermix procedural, emulated, or
        '87 specific code as needed.

        BASIC Firsts
        ------------
        PowerBASIC was the first to offer both user-defined TYPES and
        UNIONS, unlimited dynamic strings, a true handle-based string
        memory manager.  There are code pointers (to any
        sub/function/label), conditional compilation
        ($IF/$ELSE/$ENDIF), even viewports for screen text display.
        Then add Huge Arrays (greater than 64K), Absolute Arrays (at a
        specific address), even EXIT FAR to allow multi-level
        sub/function exit (beats the LONGJMP in C any day).
        PowerBASIC 3.1 is the first BASIC to offer optional parameters
        in your SUBs and FUNCTIONs, as well as 64 bit and unsigned
        support in your radix values (&H, &B, &O)

        Structure
        ---------
        Create BASIC programs with any level of structure desired.
        Free-form or absolute, the choice is yours.  You can even
        choose to require variable declaration before use.  Another
        first for PowerBASIC.

        Bit Operations
        --------------
        PowerBASIC offers a full complement of bit operations
        including: SHIFT, ROTATE, TEST, SET, RESET, and TOGGLE. Even
        implied bit arrays of up to 512K bits are supported.

        Communications
        --------------
        Here's where PowerBASIC shines.  Serial port communication is
        available for COM1 through COM4.  BAUD rates up to 115200.
        Any combination of non-standard IRQ lines. Explicit control of
        DTR, even after program termination. Automatic error detection
        or masking is available, with optional flush of erroneous
        data.

        New IDE with Mouse Support
        --------------------------
        The new IDE supports a mouse when editing your source code for
        marking blocks, cutting and pasting.  Use true compiled code
        to develop and debug -- the same code as your .EXE file.  So
        you'll never need to deal with a slow, threaded p-code
        interpreter.  That means faster development, and the
        elimination of subtle differences between interpreted and
        compiled results.

        Third Party Tools
        -----------------
        The most powerful and respected tool kits are available to
        PowerBASIC users.  Libraries from companies like Crescent,
        Cretive Software Alliance, Ansoft, and others make PowerBASIC
        the most comprehensive BASIC compiler available today.  A
        superb monthly newsletter (Basically Speaking from Information
        Management Systems) offers timely advice and examples
        specifically aimed at the PowerBASIC programmer.  In a
        nutshell, with PowerBASIC, you'll never need to re-invent the
        wheel.

        Help and Support
        ----------------
        PowerBASIC includes extensive printed documentation -- close
        to 700 pages of Programmer's Guide and Reference Guide. Then
        the context-sensitive on-line help system puts further detail
        right at your fingertips just when you need it most. Perfect
        for the novice or the professional developer. Technical
        support is available from our engineering staff by telephone,
        mail FAX, BBS, or our POWERBASIC support forum on CompuServe.

        System Requirements
        -------------------
        IBM(R) PC or compatible with two floppy disk drives, 640K of
        RAM and DOS 3.0 or greater.


様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
                 About the PowerBASIC Developer Kit for Windows
様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様

        PowerBASIC does Windows!
        ------------------------

        You've waited long enough -- patiently.  The PowerBASIC
        Developer Kit for Windows (PBDK) takes a unique approach to
        Windows programming.  Some language vendors insist that you
        abandon your current code.  Abandon your procedural
        programming skills.  Even abandon true executables for a slow
        P-Code interpreter!

        Well, we respectfully disagree!

        The PBDK was built on these principles:

        *  You have existing DOS BASIC code you wish to re-use under
           Windows.
        *  You've acquired procedural programming skills and wish to
           use them where it's appropriate.
        *  Windows may be slow -- don't make it slower with P-Code.
           Native machine code here!

        PBDK achieves all of this, then reaches even further.  For
        compatibility with existing code, you can continue to link
        industry standard object modules (OBJ), as well as newer
        dynamic link libraries (DLL).  Any industry-standard DLL can
        be used with the PBDK.  But truly unique is the ability to
        run multiple programs concurrently, with true preemptive
        multi-tasking!  That's right, you no longer have to settle
        for just cooperative multitasking.  It never filled most real
        needs anyway.  With the new PBDK, you can now create multiple
        child tasks running in preemptive multitasking, synchronized
        through semaphores and common-named memory.

        For the first time, you can move DOS programs to Windows
        quickly and easily, as you aren't forced to jump headlong
        into event-driven programming!  With PBDK, the choice is
        yours: procedural programming, event-driven methods, or even
        a combination of the two styles.  The point is, we don't
        believe that anyone should dictate programming methods to
        you.  Not us.  Not any language publisher.  That's simply an
        issue you need to decide for yourself, based upon your own
        needs and your own resources.

        Right about now, you're no doubt wondering just how easy it
        really is to move a DOS program to the Windows environment.
        You've probably heard horror stories from programmers who
        worked and worked, only to finally abandon conversion
        attempts.  I know you've heard them.  Hundreds of times.  We
        all know of developers who were forced to rewrite entire
        applications from scratch, just so they could adapt to a pure
        event-driven model.  Now don't get me wrong, PBDK won't write
        your code for you.  That's your job, as a programmer.  But it
        will give you every tool you need.  It will let you retain
        every line of code not related to the user interface.  And it
        will retain the fast execution speed of native machine code!
        So just how to you access the Windows interface?  It really
        doesn't get much simpler.  Just look at this small example:

            CALL MessageBox(0, "Stop using slow pcode!",_
                            "Welcome to PBDK", mbIconStop, code%)

        This single function call will create a message box with the
        caption of "Welcome to PBDK".  It then displays a red
        stop-sign icon, and the message "Stop using slow pcode!".
        Lastly, it displays an "OK" push-button and waits for user
        input.  Upon return, the variable code% will contain a value
        to describe the user's actions.  That's all there is to it!

        The PBDK includes over 350 functions to access Windows
        resources like: dialog boxes, menus, controls, printing,
        clipboard, DDE channels, MDI windows (Multiple Document
        Interface), drag and drop, metafiles, graphic operations,
        Windows memory, and much more.  However, you can use as few
        as a dozen of these functions to write your first PBDK
        application, adding more as your needs grow.  Even advanced
        features are available to you, such as virtual screens,
        owner draw combo and list boxes, self-resizeable controls and
        much more.  PBDK applications still make full use of the
        existing third party libraries for PB3, so there is no need
        to abandon your toolkit investment.

        The PBDK works in conjunction with PowerBASIC 3.1 (or later).
        That means that you'll still be able to edit and debug your
        applications from within the PB3 IDE, and retain the fast
        execution speed of native machine code.  PBDK includes an
        extensive online help system plus two volumes of printed
        documentation (over 600 pages) with many examples and screen
        shots.  Best of all, your PBDK applications are 100% royalty
        free!

        As a special bonus, if you order today, we'll even include a
        full copy of the Symantec Resource Toolkit (a $199 value)
        FREE OF CHARGE. This industry-standard toolkit will let you
        design Dialog Boxes, Menus, Icons, and Bitmaps for your
        applications interactively.

        The PowerBASIC Developer Kit for Windows costs just $149.00
        plus shipping.  You can order the PBDK today by calling toll
        free at (800) 780-7707 or (408) 659-8000.  You can fax your
        order to (408) 659-8008, or even mail it.  But whatever you
        do, don't miss out.  The new PBDK is simply too good to pass
        up.  As with all PowerBASIC products, there is a 30-day,
        unconditional money-back guarantee.  How can you lose?  Please
        contact us today!

        System Requirements
        IBM(R) PC or compatible with hard drive, 4 megabytes of
        RAM, DOS 3.3 or greater, and Windows 3.1 or later.

様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
                            PowerBASIC PB/Xtra
                    Programmer's Reference Collection
様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様

               You asked for it?  You got it -- PB/Xtra II!
               --------------------------------------------

        More PowerBASIC source code than you every thought possible.
        More than 200 megabytes on CDROM (less on 14-disk subset).
        There's public domain source code, freeware, shareware
        utilities and libraries, even commercial demos; all geared to
        make your PowerBASIC programming faster, easier, more
        productive.

        Communications
        --------------
        How can I best use PowerBASIC's extensive communication
        support? PB/Xtra has a complete BBS package, including source
        code, that supports public message areas, private E-mail, file
        transfers and even more.  Plus, if you need a terminal program
        to dial out, you get a shareware library which supports 16
        simultaneous ports, Xmodem, Ymodem, Ymodem-G and Zmodem file
        transfers at speeds up to 115200 baud.

        Graphics
        --------
        How do I use more graphics for business or game programming?
        PB/Xtra gives you libraries and public domain source code for
        Super VGA graphics, fonts, super-fast sprite animation, and
        bitmap graphics display capabilities.

        User Interfaces
        ---------------
        How about user interface code?  PB/Xtra has that covered as
        well.  There's source code for graphic and text modes, menus,
        dialog boxes, mouse handling, and much more.

        Databases
        ---------
        Any database tools for PowerBASIC?  We've got freeware source
        to fast B-Tree and Novell B-Trieve indexing and dBase database
        access.

        Programming Information
        -----------------------
        How can I improve my programming skills?  There's information
        about BIOS and DOS interrupts, strategic memory maps of the
        operating system, and even an introduction to assembler
        programming.

        Utilities
        ---------
        How about programming utilities?  Cross-referencing,
        documentation processing, source code formatting, source code
        printing and text file editing utilities are all in there.

        Commercial Demos
        ----------------
        What third party toolkits are available for PowerBASIC?  We've
        included demos of many of the most popular ones from vendors
        like Genus Microprogramming, T.N.T. Software, Information
        Management Systems, Creative Software Alliance, and many more.

        Installer/Browser File Manager
        ------------------------------
        How to manage 200 megabytes of resources?  We've thought of
        that, too. With the PB/Xtra Installer/Browser you won't wade
        through cryptic file names. Instead you'll view a clear
        description of each and every file in the collection.  Tag one
        or a hundred; they're automatically installed file-by-file.

        Much, Much More
        ---------------
        How much more can there be?  If that isn't enough, there's a
        utility to convert QB source to the PowerBASIC dialect, others
        for source code formatting, cross referencing, text editing,
        accessing EMS/XMS memory, and file compression.  There's so
        much more that it's impossible to list it all here.  Simply
        put, PB/Xtra is the best collection of PowerBASIC resources to
        be found anywhere.  And it's been carefully selected and
        organized to make it easy for you to choose and use.  It's
        just like having your own personal PowerBASIC BBS-In-A-Box!

        System Requirements
        -------------------
        IBM(R) PC or compatible, 640k RAM, DOS 3.3 or later, CDROM
        drive or 3.5 inch disk drive.

様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
                            SoftCode for PowerBASIC
                        An Automatic PB Code Generator!
様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様

        Here's exciting news for PowerBASIC programmers ... a brand
        new version of the award winning SoftCode program generator.
        Build professional code quicker and easier than ever!

        Design your program screens.  Layout data entry screens.
        Build complete menu structures.  Create indexed databases.
        Even specify Hot-Keys to operate your program.  Then sit back
        while SoftCode writes the PowerBASIC source code for you.

        Visual Design Tools
        -------------------
        SoftCode comes with a complete set of visual design tools.
        Starting with the Screen Designer and Application Outliner,
        you visually build the basics of an application -- the screens
        and menus.

        Action Objects
        --------------
        Next, tell your application what to do by attaching Actions to
        menu choices and Hot-Keys.  Then, add database, user
        interface, and other operations automatically.  Piece by piece
        you construct an application tailored to your needs.  Insert
        as much custom code as you wish, or none at all.  Now, you're
        ready to generate PowerBASIC source code.  Add a final
        keystroke and the code's complete, ready to compile and
        execute -- 100% PowerBASIC source code to do with as you
        please.

        Advanced Template Technology
        ----------------------------
        SoftCode is a Template-Based code generator.  Template
        technology gives you precise control over the code generation
        process.  You can customize the templates; even create your
        own.  SoftCode creates code just the way you want it.

        Generate 100% Source Code
        -------------------------
        Softcode handles any task: from a small "plug-in" module to a
        complete menu-driven database application.  It never requires
        external libraries. The Application Designer is simple to use,
        yet generates powerful applications.  You can visually design
        pull-down, pop-up and horizontal menus, pick lists, and
        data-entry screens.

        Bullet Proof Data Validation
        ----------------------------
        SoftCode lets you validate data by range, required characters,
        file or list checking, pictures and more.  It even calculates
        a field value based upon other fields and custom formulas.

        Complete Database Operations
        ----------------------------
        SoftCode can add, edit, delete, copy, or search a record.  It
        supports multiple indexes, user-switchable indexes, reindexing
        and packing of data files.

        FREE Add-Ons
        ------------
        Speed Screen(TM), is a screen display engine that lets you
        display the screens created in SoftCode using special effects
        like slides, pushes, pulls, explodes and more.  Use it to add
        great special effects and emphasis to your programs.  When you
        generate code with SoftCode, you can opt to have Speed Screen
        support added automatically.  You can even add it to your
        existing PowerBASIC applications.

        QuickFonts(TM), offers 20 new fonts for DOS.  Use them with
        any text-mode application running on a VGA/EGA monitor.

        System Requirements
        -------------------
        PowerBASIC v3.1 or later, MS-DOS 3.3 or later, hard disk
        drive.

様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
                          Contacting PowerBASIC, Inc.
様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様

        PowerBASIC, Inc.
        316 Mid Valley Center
        Carmel, CA  93923

        (800) 780-7707 Orders Only
        (408) 659-8000 Voice / International
        (408) 659-8008 Fax
        (408) 659-7401 BBS

        CompuServe:               GO POWERBASIC; section 12
                                  75300,1742; Sales
                                  73621,2613; Marketing

        Internet:                 info@powerbasic.com
                                  sales@powerbasic.com

        Word Wide Web:            http://www.powerbasic.com
