   ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
   ³ ùWhizKids  ³
   ÀÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÙ     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
       ³    ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´ (C) Copyright ùWhizWare 1993 ÃÄÄÄ¿
       ³              ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ   ³
       ³                                        ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
       ³                                        ³ Technical info ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
       ³                                        ³  ùWKhelp.EXE & WKhelp.DAT ³
       ³                                        ³  ù<drawing>.ICN files     ³
       ³                                        ³  ù<drawing>.PLT files     ³
   ÚÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄ¿                                   ³  ùWhizKids.DIR file       ³
   ³ How to ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿                 ³  ùWhizKids.EXE program    ³
   ³  ùcreate new pictures    ³                 ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
   ³  ùcopy drawings to paper ³                          ³
   ³  ùrun the main program   ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿                   ³
   ³  ùinstall this software  ³      ³    ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
   ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ      ³    ³
                                ÚÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄ¿
                                ³ Teacher tips ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                                ³  ùname recognition   ³
                                ³  ùalphabet exercises ³
                                ³  ùnumbers exercises  ³
                                ³  ùcomputer usage     ³
                                ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
|WhizKids

  The collective name of this software package is WhizKids ....

  It consists of two programs, a (help) data file, a number of drawing files
  and a directory file that contains the names of those drawings.

  The program files have dot-EXE appended to their names; ùWhizKids.EXE is
  the "main program"; ùWKhelp.EXE is the program that displays this data,
  which is "text" stored in the WKhelp.DAT file.

  The drawings that are displayed on the screen are defined by two files, each
  having identical file names, one with a name extension of PLT, one of ICN.
  The ù<drawing>.PLT files contain plot-coordinates--where the dots go on
  the screen.  The ù<drawing>.ICN files are the "real art" graphic images that
  are displayed after all of the dots are connected for a specific image.

  WhizKids was designed with the assistance of a veteran preschool teacher,
  a Director of an Early Childhood Development Center.  (PS:  She is also the
  wife of the author of this software...no mere coincidence, indeed.)

  The information in the pages that follow are meant to be helpful to those
  using this software to help children learn.  A general overview is followed
  by increasingly technical detail for those interested in deriving maximum 
  use of this tremendous teaching aid.
|WhizWare

  ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
  ³ WhizWare         ³
  ³ 635 Kendrick Rd  ÃÄÄÄ A computer software marketing firm.
  ³ Milner, GA 30257 ³
  ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ


  The analyst that designed the ùWhizKids program is Thomas C. McIntire.
  Write to Tom if you have any problems or wish to comment on this software.
  He will appreciate the input and will fire off a quick response to your
  questions.

             Our E-mail address is:  whizware@bellsouth.net   
|install

  To run this software under DOS ...

    Create a path on that disk to store this software in, then copy all of
    the files from the distribution disk into that path.  Change over to
    that path, type WhizKids, then hit Enter. 

    Consult your DOS manual about MKDIR (make directory) and COPY and CHDIR
    (change directory) or ask someone to help that is versed in these matters.

  To run this software under Windows ...

    Create a folder to store this software in, then copy all of the files
    from the distribution disk into that path.  You will likely want to
    create a shortcut next (via Explorer).  It is also a good idea to set
    the "properties" for a "full screen".  Select "Help" from the Windows
    "Start" menu for information on how to do these chores

  Note:  It is always a good idea to make a copy of the distribution disk
  before doing anything else, to safeguard against damage to your "only copy".
|run

  DOS:  When the operating system "prompts" you for a command--simply type
  WHIZKIDS and hit <Enter>.  Windows:  Click on WhizKids.EXE ...

  A "menu" will be displayed of the names of the drawings included with this
  disk.   Use the cursor control keys--the <arrow> keys--to move the
  outline box to one of the names listed, then hit <Enter>.
                                                               ÚÄÄÄ¿
      A connect-the-dots outline will be displayed with        ³ 2 ³
      either numbers or letters next to the dots, then         ÀÄÂÄÙ
      a diagram similar to the one shown here will be    ÚÄÄÄ¿ ÉÍÏÍ» ÚÄÄÄ¿
      displayed.                                         ³ 4 ÃÄ¶ 1 ÇÄ´ 9 ³
                                                         ÀÄÄÄÙ ÈÍÑÍ¼ ÀÄÄÄÙ
      In this case, if the "up" arrow is hit, a line           ÚÄÁÄ¿
      will be drawn from dot #1 to dot #2.  (Any other         ³ 6 ³
      key will simply cause a low-pitched "beep".)             ÀÄÄÄÙ

  Two other keys are important:  The <Esc> key will "quit" a drawing early and
  return the program to the menu display.  <Esc> at that time will terminate
  the ùWhizKids program and return control to DOS.

  The question mark <?> key will switch from drawing mode to this help program
  at any time; <Esc> from there will cause a return back to drawing mode.
| 

  If you have a Mouse:  The on-line help program checks to see if MOUSE.COM or
  MOUSE.SYS has already been loaded.  If not, or Mickey is not responding this
  program simply defaults to no-Mouse mode.  (Use the cursor keys instead.)

    Also:  Only one of two buttons are tested for; the left one works like
    <Enter> and the right one like <Esc>.  This can be flip-flopped however,
    if you prefer, by hitting <F2> any time this program is running.

  Notice that the program ùWKhelp.EXE may be run by itself--type WKHELP and
  hit <Enter> from DOS command mode, or click on WKhelp.EXE in Windows to do
  this.  Also, in the event  you would like to capture some of this
  information on paper for off-line reference, consider using the <Prt Scr>
  key to "print the screen".

  It is also possible in most cases to reproduce "screen art" on paper, on a
  printer.  The next page describes how this type of ùcopy operation may be
  done.
|copy

  Assuming you have a printer connected to your computer that is of the
  "dot matrix" type technology and you have the DOS (command) program called
  GRAPHICS.COM ....

      Note:  See your DOS manual about specifics regarding the GRAPHICS
      command if you are not already versed in its intricacies.

  Now, BEFORE you run ùWhizKids load the GRAPHICS program into memory ....
  Typically all that is needed is to type that one-word command--GRAPHICS--
  while in DOS command mode; it need be done only once after each system
  power-on.

  Connect-the-dots images:  Perhaps you want to make hand-outs for your Sunday
  School class.  When you first select a drawing name simply hit <Prt Scr>
  when the "blank" picture is displayed.

  Or perhaps you like one of the "real art" pictures that are displayed when a
  dots-image has been completed.  Notice the program halts when these pictures
  are displayed, waiting for some (any) key to be hit before returning to the
  menu.  Now is the time to hit <Prt Scr> to reproduce what you see on paper.

      Note:  Graphics images routed to a printer in this manner are printed
      "sideways", and color usually winds up being "shades of gray".
|create

  ùWhizWare markets a software product which is the same one we use to
   make drawings for this program.  And you can do it too.  It is not hard
   at all.  In fact, it can be rather fun.

   If you are not so inclined, perhaps you know a teenager or someone else
   that is "really into computers" ....  See our info page about ùWhizDraw 
   then look at ùWhizWare for their address.

   See ùWhizKids.DIR about how ùWhizKids.EXE knows the names of drawings that
   it displays in its menu routine.
|computer

  ùWhizKids has two basic modes:  Counting, or the ABCs in sequence.  And
   the ability to recognize the shapes of numbers and letters.

   To make it possible for a child to concentrate on these thoughts we have
   minimized the number of keys that must be used to communicate with the
   program.  See the correspondence between the input "boxes" and the cursor
   arrow keys on the keyboard.

   Notice too the conceptual similarity of "multiple choice tests" which they
   are bound to encounter as they grow older.

   In this case, when they pick a correct answer, a line is drawn between dots
   (an incorrect choice produces an immediate "beep").  To reward them for
   finishing a complete drawing they are presented with the "real art" image,
   the one their line drawing was created from.  (Viz, they perceive they
   actually drew the finished product.)

   Because this program does not actually write anything to disk, anywhere,
   it is relatively safe to permit a child to use "your computer"; no harm
   is apt to be caused to any valuable data or files you have in the system.
|numbers

  The normal scheme of ùWhizKids is that when a name is selected from the
  menu by use of <Enter> the number of dots that comprise that drawing will
  dictate whether letters or numbers will be used to connect the dots.  If
  more than 26 dots are needed numbers are shown, otherwise letters are used.

  This "default logic" may be altered for the smaller drawings, however:

  When a child is first being taught to count, for example, a simplistic
  figure such as a TRIANGLE might be chosen.  To cause those three dots to
  be labeled as 1, 2, 3 (rather than A, B, C) hit <F1> on the keyboard to
  pick the name from the menu (instead of the <Enter> key).

  A variation of this concept can be used for more advanced students to help
  them learn to count by twos, threes, fours and fives.  Respectively, use
  <F2> or <F3> or <F4> or <F5> to make a menu selection.

    The maximum number of dots for a given image is 99, so, what happens if
    you hit <F5>--to count by fives--and 99 would be exceeded?  Nothing.
    The program will simply respond as if you had hit <Enter>--the image
    will be numbered as it "normally" would be.
|alphabet

  The normal scheme of ùWhizKids is that when a name is selected from the
  menu by use of <Enter> the number of dots that comprise that drawing will
  dictate whether letters or numbers will be used to connect the dots.  If
  more than 26 dots are needed numbers are shown, otherwise letters are used,
  starting with the letter A.  This "default logic" may be altered for the
  smaller drawings, however:  (For more than 26, the following is ignored.)

  When a child is first being taught letter shapes, for example, a simplistic
  figure such as a TRIANGLE might be chosen.  To cause those three dots to
  be labeled to start with a letter other than A--to produce J, K, L, for
  example--hit <J> on the keyboard to pick the name from the menu (instead
  of the <Enter> key).

  A variation of this concept can be used for more advanced students to help
  them learn to distinguish between upper and lower case letters.  Letters
  shown in the "pick boxes" are normally always capitals.  To cause them to
  be displayed as lower-case equivalents, depress either <Ctrl> key and hold
  it down while making a menu selection with <Enter> or a letter-key (then
  release both keys, of course).

    What happens if you hit <Z>, for example, and three letters are needed?
    The sequence would start with X, that is, X, Y, and Z would be shown.
|name

  The menu of drawing names that is displayed by this program comes from a
  file called ùWhizKids.DIR (see that subject page for more on this).

  When a drawing is selected that name is displayed adjacent to the pick-box
  display so that the child may discern "cause and affect".  And to encourage
  recognition of word-shapes and their relationships to objects.

  It is not difficult to change the names we have chosen to identify the
  drawing files (and thus to change what the child will see).

    Do this, for example, at the DOS command level:

      REN TRIANGLE.* PYRAMID.*  (then hit <Enter>, of course)

    Now, immediately:  DEL WHIZKIDS.DIR being careful to delete only that
    specific file; the next time ùWhizKids.EXE is run it will automatically
    generate a new dot-DIR file with the "new" names in it.

  It is also possible to cause the names to be displayed with a mixture of
  upper and lower case letters for the benefit of more advanced students.
  Study ùWhizKids.DIR and pay particular attention to the advice about being
  careful to maintain the overall format of this file ....
|WhizKids.EXE

  WhizKids.EXE is the file name of the main program--the one that displays
  the connect-the-dots images.  This program was written with GWBASIC.EXE
  (version 3.23) and then compiled with QB.EXE (version 2.0).  It requires
  only about 60 Kb of memory to run in.

  This software has been tested on both XT and AT type machines, with both
  an EGA, and a VGA monitor and adapter.  No special CONFIG.SYS parameters
  are required.  WhizKids.EXE does expect all of its related files to be in
  the same path that it is run from.

  The menu of drawing names that is displayed by this program comes from a
  file called ùWhizKids.DIR (see that subject page for more on this).

  The "dots images" are contained in individual files that have dot-PLT name
  extensions; the corresponding "real art" images have corresponding names,
  with dot-ICN extensions.  See ù<drawing>.PLT and ù<drawing>.ICN for details
  about what is in those files.  These "plot" and "icon" files were created
  with a program called ùWhizDraw (q.v.) also available from ùWhizWare (q.v.)

  The next page gives a brief overview of how WhizKids.EXE works ....
| 

  When ùWhizKids.EXE begins it first looks for a file called ùWhizKids.DIR --
  it is a directory-file.  If found, it displays the name-portion of all of
  the dot-PLT files contained in that file.

    Note:  If no dot-DIR file is found this program automatically does a DOS
    command--DIR *.PLT>WhizKids.DIR--to generate a new one.  Thus, this
    is how a "new menu" can be generated when additional drawing files are
    added to the disk or old ones are removed for one reason or another.

  The menu routine automatically adjusts to a screen lay-out of 8 columns of
  names, with up to 20 names listed in each column.  They are displayed in
  the order they are reflected in the dot-DIR file.

  When <Enter> is hit--while the menu page is being displayed--the name
  surrounded by a box is used to "read" the corresponding dot-PLT file and a
  lines-image is displayed (briefly).  This routine also assigns numbers (or
  letters) to those dot-positions.  If the total number of dots is 26 or less,
  letters are assigned, otherwise numbers are used, of from 1 to 99.

  The way the positions for the numbers (or letters) are determined is
  described on the next page ....
| 

  Where dots occur on the screen is determined by "plot coordinates" stored in
 ù<drawing>.PLT files.  As the coordinates are read, in sequence, lines are
  drawn to connect the dots.  When the complete image is drawn a second pass
  is made to determine where the numbers (or letters) should be positioned.

  Starting from the beginning again, running in sequence, the area around each
  dot is inspected to find enough "blank space" for the number or letter to be
  printed (so that it will not over-print a line or another number or letter).
  The logic for determining where dot-numbers (or letters) should be printed
  is also influenced by whether a given dot is left or right of the center of
  the overall image--in an attempt to give first preference for displaying
  it "outside" the basic picture.

  Numbers or letters may appear left or right of a dot, to the left and above,
  to the left and below, to the right and above, or to the right and below.
  Occasionally, on some drawings, no "blank space" can be found close to the
  dot for its number (or letter), so it is simply omitted (on the display).

  The artist that "draws" an image file can influence whether or not numbers
  or letters are apt to be omitted (too many dots closely spaced is the key).
  An occasional missing number or letter is considered the better alternative
  to spacing them too far away, or over-printing something else.
|WhizKids.DIR

  When ùWhizKids.EXE begins it first looks for a file called WhizKids.DIR, a
  directory-file.  If this file is not found "DIR *.PLT>WhizKids.DIR" is done
  to create it.  (This is how a "new menu" can be generated when additional
  drawing files are added to the disk or old ones are removed for some reason.)

  The total contents of this file are identical to what would be shown on the
  screen if DIR was done while in DOS command mode.  The menu-display routine
  in ùWhizKids.EXE simply reads this file, displays the names of the dot-PLT
  files, and ignores the other trivia.

  Notice the presentation sequence of names on the menu may be deliberately
  organized by "stacking" the files on the disk in a preferred order.

    It is also possible to use a text editor or word processing program to
    rearrange the file-name lines contained in WhizKids.DIR but it must be
    done carefully, so that the overall format of this file is not altered.
|<drawing>.PLT

  Files with name extensions of dot-PLT (Plot files) are generated by someone
  using ùWhizDraw --a ùWhizWare shareware product.  The gist of how this is
  done goes like this:

    1.  <Load> an icon file on the screen.  (See ù<drawing>.ICN for details.)
    2.  <Paste> that image at a preferred location on a blank screen.
    3.  Hit <F5> to initialize a plot data file called WDplot.DAT.
    4.  Move the cursor arrow to desired "dot" positions and hit <F5> to
        record each of those successive coordinates in the plot data file.
        (The "color setting" at that point is also saved; it is the color
        that will be used when lines are drawn by ùWhizKids.EXE eventually.)
    5.  When the "line drawing" is finished <Quit> is done, to mark the end
        of the plot file.  Which is also logical because the next thing that
        should typically be done is to re-name WDplot.DAT to be a dot-PLT
        file that corresponds to the dot-ICN file that was used.

  The internal format of dot-PLT files:  ASCII (text) data; three numeric
  values per line, separated by spaces, the horizontal and vertical screen
  coordinates, followed by a color code for that line.  The first record
  relates to steps 2 and 3, above; those that follow relate to dot-positions
  for the lines to be drawn, in presentation order.
|<drawing>.ICN

  Files with name extensions of dot-ICN (Icon files) are generated by someone
  using ùWhizDraw --another ùWhizWare product.  The gist of how this is
  done goes like this:

    1.  <Draw> an image on the screen.
    2.  <Cut> that image (save it in memory).
    3.  <Save> the cut image (copy it from memory to a dot-ICN file).

  The internal format of dot-ICN files is a function of how the BSAVE and
  BLOAD commands work, commands used within the ùWhizDraw program.

  Graphics-art images may be generated in one of several ways.  They may be
  "free hand drawn" using the various pixel-editing and automatic drawing
  functions built into the ùWhizDraw program.  They may also be "imported"
  using a special Graphics Utility File program included with this package--
  images that are first captured with a scanner, viz, graphics image files
  that correspond to what are commonly called dot-MSP files.

  Notice the opportunities:  A scanner can be used to capture images from
  nearly any printed material.  Art that you have drawn on paper or even
  photographs.  Even photos of students themselves, family members, pets or
  other things they can personally relate to.
|WKhelp.EXE

  WKhelp.EXE is the file name of the ùWhizKids on-line help program.  It reads
  and displays the information contained in WKhelp.DAT--the data file, that
  is, the text that you see here.

 ùWhizKids.EXE is designed such that it will automatically invoke WKhelp any
  time the question-mark <?> key is hit.  WKhelp.EXE is designed such that it
  may also be run by simply typing WKHELP at the DOS command level.

    The text contained in WKhelp.DAT was originally generated using PCW, a
    word processing program, and stored as WKhelp.TXT, an ASCII text file.
    Another WhizWare program--WhizHELP--uses the TXT file to generate this
    customized WKhelp.EXE program.

  Notice that the WKhelp files (dot-EXE, DAT, TXT) are not essential to the
  overall working of ùWhizKids.EXE (in the interest of saving disk space
  they may be deleted, although, they are not very large).

  If WKhelp.EXE is not contained in the working path of ùWhizKids.EXE and the
  <?> key is hit, it is simply ignored.
|WhizDraw

                 ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                 ³  WhizDraw:  A powerful pixel punching program. ³
                 ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

          A "full screen" graphics art and drawing program that is easy
          to use and quickly learned.  It features pop up menus so that,
          unlike most tools of this genre, your sketch pad is the entire
          screen.

          The capabilities usually expected are built-in:  Cut and Paste
          and Zoom and the like.  Plus one-click support for drawing
          Lines and Ovals and Boxes.  And several for speedy painting of
          large areas with particular colors.  And it comes with three
          "customizable" font sets.

          Two unique features of this package:  WD9JetXL for generating
          your Rembrandts on an HP PaintJet printer in living color, plus
          WDGraF--our Graphics Files Utility program.

            This combination makes it easy to import a shades-of-gray
            MSP-type file captured with a scanner, dink the colors and
            produce camera-ready hard copy.
                                                           (continued)
| 

          Even without a high priced color printer, <Print Screen> makes
          some pretty pictures on most any dot matrix printer.

          WhizDraw works in "screen 9 mode" (640x350 resolution) on any
          EGA/VGA machine with a Mouse, running under DOS 4.0 or later.
          Not only is it fast, even on older 8086 machines, it can all
          work in a mere 640 Kb environment, including its easy to use
          on-line manual.

          No, WhizDraw is not a full blown desk-top publishing system.  It
          was not intended to be.  Yet, it can be highly useful for many
          "small" chores, especially for those that you need to do on an
          occasional basis, because it requires so little practice to master.
          Even by youngsters!

|
