Matrix 2.1 is the enhanced version of QB Matrix and was written in
QuickBasic 4.5. If has a great list of features and is only $2 dollars
by e-mail!  Please read on ...

Let's start with control. Matrix 2.1 can be played with a gamepad or
mouse which can greatly improve scores and make higher levels much
easier to conquer. Especially the gamepad because of the accurate
control it provides. Also, having the mouse available makes option
selection effortless.

Matrix 2.1 allows game progress to be saved at any time. If things
look like they have been going well save your current game. When things
go bad start where you last saved. Up to five seperate games can be saved. 

One of the neatest features of Matrix 2.1 is the ability to record your
games. By pressing the record button on the options screen your game
will be recorded piece by piece, move by move. When the game is over
you can play it back! Learn from your mistakes. Or just relax and enjoy
watching your game without the pressure you get from playing it. Better
yet, show your friends how you beat thier highscores.

Besides playing reqular Tetris, Matrix 2.1 plays scenerios. These are
preconstruted games where the object is to clear pit of the blocks with
an 'S' in them using the least amount of pieces as possible. The top
five scores for each scenerio are displayed at games end. There are about
12 scenerios included plus a scenerio editor so you can make your own.

Matrix 2.1 has a host of other improvements. Different palettes can be
loaded for colorfull effects, choose between piece styles, and so many
other little enhancements that really add to the game. Extended levels
for instance. Piece drop times between levels have been expanded so
the game lasts a lot longer before it gets to difficult. A slide feature
that lets you slide the piece a few seconds after it stops traveling
before it 'locks' in. Great on higher levels. Bonus points are awarded
for line clears. 100 for singles, 200 for doubles, 900 for triples and
2500 for quads. New graphics have been added too. For instance there are
about half of dozen different ways the pit get cleared before displaying
the games total bonuses and time played. There is also a special bonus
screen if get past level 14.

One other thing before before the ordering info. Matrix 2.1 has cheat
codes. You can stop the pieces from dropping. Execute line clears to
get you out of trouble. And add points to your score at a whim! Cheats
can be protected with a password so nobody can access them but you!


If you would like a copy of the Matrix 2.1 source code, documentation
and the compiled program, print out the ODRFRM.TXT file enclosed it
with a $2 check or money order along with your e-mail address to :

    Tim Truman
    110 Homestead Ave
    Spfld MA 01151

If you would prefer postal delivery include another $2 dollars
to cover the disk and postal expenses.

 
If there are futher questions I can be reached at the following :
AOL        - Tim Truman
Compuserve - 74734,2203
INTERNET   - TimTruman@aol.com



