QB MATRIX Documentation
Copyright 1996 Tim Truman

------------
Distribution 
------------
QB MATRIX may be freely distributed providing no changes are made
to the program or it's support files. QB MATRIX may not be
distributed compiled.

------------
Code Ripping
------------
Original functions and subroutines found in QB MATRIX may be used
with permision from the author.

-----------------
Loading QB Matrix 
-----------------
To load the program from DOS type  QBASIC QBMATRIX  and press enter.
Intructions on how to play are included in the first few pages of source
code or you can read them below. If you want to skip reading the
instructions and go right to the game type  QBASIC /RUN QBMATRIX
and press enter.

If your using QuickBasic 4.5 then Type QB QBMATRIX or QB /RUN QBMATRIX.

Windows users can use the included PIF files to load the program.
Use the File Manager and double click on the QBASIC.PIF file to run
QBMATRIX in QBASIC or double click the QB45.PIF to load QBMATRIX into
QuickBASIC 4.5.

-----------------
Playing QB Matrix
-----------------

-- Selecting play options 

 After leaving the title screen an option screen will appear. Here's the
 options availble. Press on the buttons to use them.
 
 Slam Mode -     Setting slam mode will cause the piece in play
                 to immediatly drop into position after pressing
                 the down arrow key or the 2 key. Otherwise the
                 down arrow key or key 2 on the numeric keypad must
                 be held to drop the piece. Slam mode is best used
                 after becomming familiar with the game.

 Sound -         Allows you to turn off the sound effects so you
                 won't disturb the boss.

 Level -         The higher the selected level the faster the pieces
                 will drop.

 Handicap -      Selecting a handicap greater than zero will fill the
                 bottom of the pit with random blocks up to the number
                 of rows equal to the handicap value selected.

 Play Matrix -   Start the game with the selected options.

 Key usage during option screen:
      /         - esc
      8         - move cursor up
   4  5  6      - move cursor left / press buttons / move cursor right
      2         - move cursor down
      Or use the arrow keys and space bar.


-- How to play 

    Get the falling pieces to fit the best you can within the
    confines of the pit. When complete rows are formed they will
    be cleared. This will make room for more pieces. When pieces land
    on the very top row of the pit the game will be over.

    Key usage during game :
        /         - esc
        8         - spin piece ccwise
     4  5  6      - move piece left / spin piece cwise / move piece right
        2         - move piece down
    Ins   Del     - toggle slam mode / toggle sound
    Or use the arrow keys and space bar.

-- Scoring

 Points are awarded every time a piece land in the pit. The points
 recieved are calculated by the row the piece lands in and the current
 level. Simply, the higher the piece lands and the higher the level
 the more points that are added to the score.

-- Entering a highscore 

 QB Matrix keeps the top 15 highscores. If you have beaten one of them
 a red blinking cursor will appear at your rank and you can enter a name
 or phrase of up to 23 charaters in length. The keys respond like a reqular
 text editor. Press enter when done.


-----------------------------
Ordering the Advanced Version
-----------------------------

For information on ordering the QuickBASIC 4.5 version with
greatly enhanced features read the MATRIX.TXT file.

Questions, comments or work related:
AOL        - Tim Truman
Compuserve - 74734,2203
INTERNET   - TimTruman@aol.com


Enjoy The Game!

