                        Thomas G. Hanlin III
                            3544 E. Southern Ave. #104
                                Mesa, AZ 85024



This is a list of some of the software which I have written.  This software,
or a similar collection (things get added or removed over time) will be sent
to you free if you register any of my shareware products, or you may order a
set of disks for $5.00 (foreign orders must be via international money order
and include $4.00 shipping).  This does not include shareware registration
fees, if any.  You are still expected to register any shareware that you find
useful.  The $5.00 Sampler fee may be applied toward any registration.

The registered versions of each library come with full source code-- often a
megabyte or more, providing an excellent learning opportunity for beginners
and old pros alike.  Assembly language source code is designed for MASM 6.0
and may require alteration to assemble with A86, OPTASM, TASM, or older
versions of MASM.  BASIC source code is designed for QuickBASIC 4.0-4.5 or
BASCOM ("PDS") 6.0-7.1, or for PowerBASIC 2.1, depending on the library.
Pascal source code is designed for Turbo Pascal 6.0 or Quick Pascal 1.0, but
should compile with Turbo Pascal versions dating back to 5.0.



2MON: A collection of utilities for dual-monitor systems.  Free.

Utilities include a clock TSR which runs on the mono display, a utility to
clear the mono display, and a TSR which remaps the PrintScreen key-- instead
of going to the printer, it copies the color display to the mono display.



AABAS: The Affordable Alternative BASIC Library.  Shareware ($8)

This is a good library for people curious about the workings of their
computer, learning how to use libraries, or interested in writing their own
assembly language routines for QuickBASIC.  It is a collection of scores of
simple BIOS and DOS-related routines written in assembly language.  AABAS is
not as fancy as my other BASIC libraries, but it's quite useful in its own
right and makes a great learning tool.



ASMWIZ: The Assembly Wizard's Library.  Shareware ($25)

This is a library for assembly language.  The library will work with A86,
MASM, OPTASM, and TASM.  Only .COM files are supported.  Routines include
text displays (machine-level, BIOS, and DOS), graphics (Hercules, CGA, EGA),
number base conversions, long integer math, file matching and command-line
parsing, pseudo-random number generation, countdowns and delays, buffered
file support with critical error handling, environment scanning, string
functions, mouse support, sound generation, control over Break, loading of
BSAVE-format files, and more.



BASUPD: BASIC Update Library.  Free.

This library provides routines for QuickBASIC 4.x which mimic new functions
and commands provided by other Microsoft BASIC compilers, such as PDS 7.x and
Visual Basic.  These include disk routines and a powerful selection of time
and date functions.  BasUpd comes with full source code.



BASWIZ: The BASIC Wizard's Library.  Shareware ($35).  REQUIRES LIBWIZxx.ZIP.

This is a library for QuickBASIC and BASCOM (including "PDS", the
"Professional Development System").  It contains a numeric expression
evaluator, so you can convert an equation into a number; far strings, so
you'll never see "Out of String Space" again (EMS is supported too!);
powerful file handling, with optional buffering and built-in critical error
handling; telecommunications support, including DTR control, carrier
detection and more for COM1 - COM4; pointers and memory management, giving
BASIC the capability for flexible data structures long enjoyed by C, Pascal
and Modula-2 programmers; a virtual windowing system that gives you much more
than just windows-- change the size, move 'em around, scroll a window around
on a huge virtual screen, all smoothly and at lightning speed-- the BASWIZ
demo program gives some hint of what you can do.  The virtual windowing
system is where BASWIZ really shines.  To the best of my knowledge, there is
no better text display management system for BASIC.

Graphics capabilities are also included.  Besides replacements for the BASIC
graphics support for CGA, EGA, VGA and Hercules modes (no TSR needed), BASWIZ
adds many new capabilities.  You can print text and graphics screens on an
Epson-compatible printer or treat the printer like a graphics screen with a
special set of text and graphics routines.  A selection of fonts is available
and can be displayed in any desired size. A pseudo-graphics mode (80x50) is
available for use on any display adapter.  There are also two new VGA modes
that will work on any register compatible VGA, which allow 320x400 or 360x480
resolution in 256 colors (compare that to the BASIC SCREEN 13 mode, with only
320x200)! Also SuperVGA (Tseng chipset) support-- up to 1024x768 in 256
colors. Detect the current display adapter, draw dots, lines, circles,
ellipses, regular polygons... it's all here, with detailed explanations and
assorted example programs.

Last but not least, the math routines.  These provide extensive math support
in three areas: new or faster routines for BASIC's existing math, precision
math using fractions, and the ultimate in numeric precision: BCD math with up
to 254-digit numbers.  Extensions to BASIC's existing math include inverse
trig and hyperbolic trig functions, the error function, constants and
conversions.  Fraction math is fairly limited at the moment, supporting
little more than the basic four functions.  BCD math includes much more than
such basics, though-- trig functions, square roots, factorials, constants
with hundreds of digits of precision, etc; formatted output may be done to
your specs.  You can place the decimal point anywhere you want, so this is
perfect whether you deal in very large or very small numbers!



BPP: A BASIC PreProcessor.  Free.

This utility provides a powerful meta-language for QuickBASIC, BASCOM
(including "PDS"), and even the QBASIC provided with DOS 5.0.  It processes
your code before the compiler gets to it, allowing conditional compilation,
underscores within variable names, flexible "include" files (which may even
contain SUB and FUNCTION definitions), name substitutions, and more.  C
programmers have had preprocessors for years-- now there's one for BASIC too!



EXECOM: EXE-to-COM converter.  Free.

Like EXE2BIN, this utility converts .EXE files to .COM files.  It's smaller
and faster, though, as well as offering a few additional conveniences.
Assembly language source code is included.



EXETOOL: EXE Tool.  Free.

This program examines .EXE files for validity and can tell you whether the
.EXE was designed for use with Microsoft Windows.  If the .EXE file is
determined to be too long, as it might be if you got it using an older file
transfer protocol, you are given the option of truncating it to the right
size.



KEYCTL: Keyboard Control.  Free.

For AT-class machines only (286, 386, 486), this utility allows you to speed
up your keyboard (or make it less sensitive for kids, etc).  You can also
swap the positions of the CapsLock and Left Ctrl keys, useful for civilizing
the 101-key "enhanced" keyboard.  Assembly language source code included.



LIBWIZ: The Library Wizard's *BASIC Library Manager*.  Free.

This is a management tool for handling and customizing BASIC libraries.  It
is required for my BASWIZ and PBClone libraries.



OBJTOOL: OBJ Tool.  Shareware ($10).

This program scans .OBJ files for the module name, public symbols, and
external symbols.  It checks the .OBJ file for validity.  OBJTOOL lets you
change the names of public and external symbols, which is especially useful
if you have several libraries which contain routines with conflicting names,
for example.



PASWIZ: The Pascal Wizard's Library.  Shareware ($25).

This is a library for Turbo Pascal and QuickPascal.  It provides high-powered
math routines, new string support, mouse management, music, BCD math, and
other routines.

The math routines provide a numeric expression evaluator which allows you to
convert equations into numbers at run time.  The math capabilities of Pascal
have been expanded significantly with new trig, inverse trig, hyperbolic
trig, and other functions.  For the ultimate in numeric precision, BCD math
is also provided, allowing you to manipulate numbers of up to 254 digits--
not just with the basic four functions, but trig, square roots, factorials,
constants with hundreds of digits of precision, etc; formatted output can be
done to your specs.  You can place the decimal point anywhere you want, so
this works equally well with very large and very small numbers.  String
support includes compression, encryption, fuzzy comparisons, and other
goodies.  The music manager works like the BASIC PLAY language and BBS "ANSI
music".



PBCLON: The PBClone Library.  Shareware ($25).  REQUIRES LIBWIZxx.ZIP.

This is a library for QuickBASIC and BASCOM (including "PDS").  It is the
successor to my old ADVBAS library.  With over 400 routines and counting,
this library covers a little bit of everything: mouse support, disk
wrangling, string mangling, keyboard input, equipment detection, graphics, a
wide variety of display management, directory searching, text compression,
viewing archive directories (.ARC/.ARJ/.LZH/.PAK/.ZIP/.ZOO), matrix math,
dates, times and countdowns, sorts, binary searches, and... well, it's hard
to describe such a collection other than to say "it's probably in here"!

PBClone uses a low-level approach, giving you the greatest flexibility
possible.  BasWiz uses a higher-level approach, giving you more power for
less effort.  These libraries can be used separately or together.



PBWIZ: The PowerBASIC Wizard's Library.  Shareware ($25).

This is a collection of units for Spectra's PowerBASIC compiler.  It includes
archive viewing (for ARC, ARJ, LZH, PAK, ZIP, ZOO), 256-color graphics modes
(320x200 and 360x480 on any ordinary VGA), mouse and keyboard control, EMS
and XMS memory access, equipment detection, extended math and string
routines, a numeric equation evaluator, and assorted other goodies.



QBWIZ: The QuickBASIC Wizard's Library.  Free.

A collection of routines which allow you to access internal variables for
QuickBASIC 4.0 - 4.5.  You can retrieve the screen mode, display adapter
type, DEF SEG setting, I/O redirection status, current screen colors, and
many other useful values.



VCLOCK: Video clock TSR.  Free.

This tiny TSR provides a running display of the time.  You may specify screen
position, 12 or 24 hours, whether to display seconds, the colors to use, and
other parameters.  Two versions are provided-- one for 8088 PCs and one for
later machines.  Assembly language source code is included.
