                       =------------------------------=
                       |     Thomas G. Hanlin III     |
                       |  3544 E. Southern Ave. #104  |
                       |        Mesa, AZ 85204        |
                       =------------------------------=



  This is a list of some of the software which I have written.  The entire
  set will be sent to you if you register any one of the listed shareware
  products, or you may order a set of disks for $5.00 (see REGISTER.TXT).
  This does not include shareware registration fees, if any.  You are still
  expected to register any shareware that you find useful.



ASMWIZ14      The Assembly Wizard's Library, v1.4.  This is a collection of
(shareware)   over 150 routines for programming in assembly language.  Sound
              effects, parsing, advanced file support, mouse handling, string
              functions, lightning screen I/O, 32-bit math, high-resolution
              timers, graphics support and much more is provided.

BASWIZ17      The BASIC Wizard's Library, v1.7.  This is a set of
(shareware)   routines written in BASIC and assembly language for use with
              the QuickBASIC and BASCOM compilers.  It provides a powerful
              virtual windowing system, an expression evaluator, display
              detection, far strings (no more running out of string space),
              communications (includes COM3 and COM4), pointers, memory
              management, graphics (MDA, HGA, CGA, EGA, MCGA, VGA, SuperVGA,
              Epson printer), and math support (BCD, fractions, new trig
              functions, and so on), among other things.  Requires LIBWIZ.

BPP10         A BASIC Pre-Processor, v1.0.  This provides a powerful meta-
              language for QuickBASIC, BASCOM (including "PDS"), and even the
              QBASIC provided with DOS 5.0.  It processes your code before
              the compiler gets to it, allowing conditional compilation,
              underscores within variable names, flexible "include" files
              (which may even contain SUB and FUNCTION definitions), name
              substitutions, and more.  C programmers have had preprocessors
              for years-- now there's one for BASIC as well!

EXECOM12      EXECOM, v1.2.  Like EXE2BIN, this utility converts .EXE files
              to .COM files.  It's smaller and faster, though, as well as
              offering a few additional conveniences.

EXETOOL       EXE Tool.  This program examines .EXE files for validity and
              can tell you whether the .EXE was designed for use with
              Microsoft Windows.  If the .EXE file is determined to be too
              long, as it might be if you got it using an older file transfer
              protocol, you are given the option of truncating it to the
              right size.

LIBWIZ11      The Library Wizard's *BASIC Library Manager*, a management tool
              for handling and customizing BASIC libraries.  This is required
              for my BASWIZ and PBClone libraries.

OBJTOOL       OBJ Tool.  This program scans .OBJ files for the module name,
(shareware)   public symbols, and external symbols.  It checks the .OBJ file
              for validity.  OBJTOOL lets you change the names of public and
              external symbols, which is especially useful if you have
              several libraries which contain routines with conflicting
              names, for example.

PASWIZ10      The Pascal Wizard's Library, v1.0.  This is a set of
(shareware)   routines written in Pascal and assembly language for use with
              the Turbo Pascal and Quick Pascal compilers.  It includes an
              expression evaluator, math support (BCD, new trig functions,
              and so on), mouse handling, new string functions, music, et al.

PBCLON16      The PBClone Library, v1.6.  This is a collection of over 400
(shareware)   routines for QuickBASIC.  It is the successor to my old ADVBAS
              library and to the commercial ProBas library.  Requires LIBWIZ.

QBWIZ12       The QuickBASIC Wizard's Library, v1.2.  A collection of
              routines which allow you to access internal variables for
              QuickBASIC 4.0 - 4.5.  You can retrieve the screen mode,
              display adapter type, DEF SEG setting, I/O redirection status,
              current screen colors, and many other useful values.
