This is a list of the libraries I have available.  These are shareware
products which may often be found at your local BBS.  If you can't get them
locally or wish to make sure you have the latest versions, sampler disks are
available.  See CATALOG.TXT for a list of the files included on the sampler
disks.  See REGISTER.TXT for an order form.

The registered versions of each library come with full source code.  Assembly
language source code is designed for MASM 6.0 and may require alteration to
assemble with A86, OPTASM, TASM, or older versions of MASM.  BASIC source
code is designed for QuickBASIC 4.0-4.5 or BASCOM ("PDS") 6.0-7.1.  Pascal
source code is designed for Turbo Pascal 6.0 or Quick Pascal 1.0, but should
compile with Turbo Pascal versions dating back to 5.0.



ASMWIZ: The Assembly Wizard's Library

   This is a library for assembly language.  The library will work with A86,
   MASM, OPTASM, and TASM.  Only .COM files are supported.  Routines include
   text displays (machine-level, BIOS, and DOS), graphics (Hercules, CGA,
   EGA), number base conversions, long integer math, file matching and
   command-line parsing, pseudo-random number generation, countdowns and
   delays, buffered file support with critical error handling, environment
   scanning, string functions, mouse support, sound generation, control over
   Break, loading of BSAVE-format files, and more.



BASWIZ: The BASIC Wizard's Library

   This is a library for BASIC.  It contains a numeric expression evaluator,
   so you can convert an equation into a number; far strings, so you'll never
   see "Out of String Space" again (EMS is supported too!); powerful file
   handling, with optional buffering and built-in critical error handling;
   telecommunications support, including DTR control, carrier detection and
   more for COM1 - COM4; pointers and memory management, giving BASIC the
   capability for flexible data structures long enjoyed by C, Pascal and
   Modula-2 programmers; a virtual windowing system that gives you much more
   than just windows-- change the size, move 'em around, scroll a window
   around on a huge virtual screen, all smoothly and at lightning speed-- the
   BASWIZ demo program gives some hint of what you can do.  The virtual
   windowing system is where BASWIZ really shines.  To the best of my
   knowledge, there is no better text display management system for BASIC.

   Graphics capabilities are also included.  Besides replacements for the
   BASIC graphics support for CGA, EGA, VGA and Hercules modes (no TSR
   needed), BASWIZ adds many new capabilities.  You can print text and
   graphics screens on an Epson-compatible printer or treat the printer like
   a graphics screen with a special set of text and graphics routines.  A
   selection of fonts is available and can be displayed in any desired size.
   A pseudo-graphics mode (80x50) is available for use on any display
   adapter.  There are also two new VGA modes that will work on any
   register-compatible VGA, which allow 320x400 or 360x480 resolution in 256
   colors (compare that to the BASIC SCREEN 13 mode, with only 320x200)!
   Detect the current display adapter, draw dots, lines, circles, ellipses,
   regular polygons... it's all here, with detailed explanations and assorted
   example programs.

   Last but not least, the math routines.  These provide extensive math
   support in three areas: new or faster routines for BASIC's existing math,
   precision math using fractions, and the ultimate in numeric precision: BCD
   math with up to 254-digit numbers.  Extensions to BASIC's existing math
   include inverse trig and hyperbolic trig functions, the error function,
   constants and conversions.  Fraction math is fairly limited at the moment,
   supporting little more than the basic four functions.  BCD math includes
   much more than such basics, though-- trig functions, square roots,
   factorials, constants with hundreds of digits of precision, etc; formatted
   output may be done to your specs.  You can place the decimal point
   anywhere you want, so this is perfect whether you deal in very large or
   very small numbers!



PASWIZ: The Pascal Wizard's Library

   This is a library for Pascal.  It provides high-powered math routines, new
   string support, mouse management, music, BCD math, and other routines.

   The math routines provide a numeric expression evaluator which allows you
   to convert equations into numbers at run time.  The math capabilities of
   Pascal have been expanded significantly with new trig, inverse trig,
   hyperbolic trig, and other functions.  For the ultimate in numeric
   precision, BCD math is also provided, allowing you to manipulate numbers
   of up to 254 digits-- not just with the basic four functions, but trig,
   square roots, factorials, constants with hundreds of digits of precision,
   etc; formatted output can be done to your specs.  You can place the
   decimal point anywhere you want, so this works equally well with very
   large and very small numbers.  String support includes compression,
   encryption, fuzzy comparisons, and other goodies.  The music manager works
   like the BASIC PLAY language and BBS "ANSI music".



PBCLON: The PBClone Library

   This is a library for BASIC.  It is the successor to my old ADVBAS
   library.  With over 400 routines and counting, this library covers a
   little bit of everything: mouse support, disk wrangling, string mangling,
   keyboard input, equipment detection, graphics, a wide variety of display
   management, directory searching, text compression, viewing archive
   .ARC/.LZH/.PAK/.ZIP directories, matrix math, dates, times and countdowns,
   and... well, it's hard to describe such a collection other than to say
   "it's probably in here"!
