Read me first (sharware release)
BULLET v1.08a (BLTP18.ZIP)

--Documentation (read this before using CZ)

The documentation is online in the CZ.COM/CZ.HLP files. To get started just
make sure CZ.HLP is in the current directory and load CZ:

   C>cz

It can also be loaded high but make sure you have at least 15K of UMB space.
It will load high in as little as 4.5K but will not operate correctly in UMB
without at least 15K. Check out the Using_CZ in the TUTORIAL_INDEX--press
Alt-F1 to hotkey into CZ. Press END (cursor moves to TUTORIAL_INDEX). Press
ENTER. Move the cursor to under Starting_CZ. Press ENTER. Use the END/ENTER
combo to continue until you get the idea. A mouse makes using CZ even easier.

If you want to have a hardcopy of the CZ.HLP use the HLP2TXT.EXE program to
strip off the header info. Load it into your favorite WP or text editor.

This package is documentation/source-specific to PowerBasic 3 in
that much of the source examples deal with using BULLET under that compiler.
Because of this, this version is called BLTP18.ZIP. The C-specific version is
called BLTC18.ZIP, the QB/BASIC7 is called BLTQ18.ZIP, and the Windows version
is call BLTW110.ZIP (the last two/three charcter reflect the version). The
BULLET.LIB files are identical for DOS compilers, except for BLTP18, which is
specific to PowerBasic (though will most likely work in Turbo Pascal if the
objects are extracted), only the documentation differs.


--Installation

BULLET comes with the PBULLET.LIB in compressed form (PBULLET.PB_). It must be
installed using the PINSTALL.EXE program. PINSTALL performs one function: it
decompresses PBULLET.PB_ (to PBULLET.LIB) and writes installation information
to the PBULLET.LIB file. It does nothing else.

To install:

   C>pinstall

The installation process asks two questions and then decompresses the file so
that PBULLET.LIB is ready for use. PBULLET.LIB is fully-functional and not
crippled. You may use PBULLET.LIB and the BULLET package for evaluation only and
for an evaluation period not to exceed 21 days from the date of installation.

After sucessful installation, fire up PB.EXE; load BP_LAI10.BAS, compile,
run.  After than, read the other info files, and especially study the
info on how to use CZ (more info within CZ itself).  If you learn how to
operate CZ, you'll probably like it.

--Registration

BULLET is a shareware product. This means that you may try BULLET during the
evaluation period free of obligation. However, you may not use BULLET after
this evaluation period without registering--you must purchase a license to
use BULLET if you wish to continue to use BULLET or any programs produced with
BULLET. See the !ORDER.FRM for ordering information by check, cash, or money
order. Use !ORDER.CC for ordering by credit card.


--Upgrades and Updates, Site licensing

All updates and upgrades are available from the support BBS free-of-charge.
See the PRODUCT_SUPPORT heading under TUTORIAL_INDEX in CZ for more.

Site licensing is available at reasonable rates. Contact me for details.


--Distribution

BBS Sysops may carry BULLET on their BBS provided that they do not modify
or remove any files.  This file must be provided free of charge, i.e., this
file cannot placed in an area that requires users to pay a fee for per-file
download. A general subscription fee BBS is exempt from this limitation,
provided that no specific charge is assessed to this particular file.

Shareware distributors/catalog vendors may carry BULLET on their inventory
provided that: the BULLET package be the only software on the diskette, that
it be made clear that the purchase of the disk does not constitute purchase
of the product, and that no charge greater than a reasonable amount for
distribution services be charged (for example, not more than 5 dollars).
CD-ROM vendors may include BULLET and may charge more than $5 for the CD,
provided that the CD is not for the sole or primary purpose of distributing
Bullet.

Only the shareware version of Bullet may be distributed without explicit
permission from the author.

In any case, the author of BULLET may at anytime request (and must be granted)
that the BULLET package be no longer advertised/distributed in the vendors
catalog and that within a reasonable time after request, advertising of BULLET
will end (within 6 months and distribution will end immediately). (Basically,
this means that you as a shareware vendor may include BULLET in your
advertising/distributing but that that I, as the author and owner of BULLET,
have the option of having you stop advertising/distributing BULLET, for
whatever reason (such as it becoming a non-shareware commercial product).)

<EOF>
