                     Thomas G. Hanlin III
                  3544 E. Southern Ave. #104
                        Mesa, AZ 85204



This catalog lists files that are included on my Sampler disks.
The Sampler is available for $5.00 ($1 + $4 p&h). This listing
is representative, as items are added and removed over time. If
you mention your interests when ordering, I will tailor your
disks accordingly. Don't forget to specify disk size/capacity.

Foreign orders must be by international money order, traveler's
check, cash, or otherwise payable directly through a U.S. bank.

The Sampler fee does not include any shareware registrations.
You are still expected to register shareware you find useful.

In most cases, registration of a product provides you with the
ability to upgrade to later releases at a reduced rate, as well
as some additional benefit. This is often in the form of full
source code, in the case of programming tools and libraries.

Prices listed do not include the $4 p & h (per order) fee.



2MON: Utilities for dual-monitor systems. Free.

   Utilities include a clock TSR which runs on the mono display,
   a utility to clear the mono display, and a TSR which remaps
   the PrintScreen key-- instead of going to the printer, it
   copies the color display to the mono display.



AABAS: Affordable Alternative BASIC Library. Shareware ($4).

   This is a good library for people curious about the workings
   of their computer, learning how to use libraries, or
   interested in writing their own assembly language routines
   for QuickBasic. It is a collection of scores of simple BIOS
   and DOS-related routines written in assembly language. AABAS
   is not as fancy as my other BASIC libraries, but it's quite
   useful in its own right and a great learning tool.

   Source code (MASM 6.0) provided on registration. Registered
   owners may upgrade to later versions for $1.

ASMWIZ: The Assembly Wizard's Library. Shareware ($25).

   This is a library of over 175 routines for assembly language.
   The library will work with A86, MASM, OPTASM, and TASM. Only
   tiny model (.COM format) is supported. Routines include text
   displays (machine-level, BIOS, and DOS), graphics (Hercules,
   CGA, EGA, VGA), number base conversions, long integer math,
   file matching and command-line parsing, pseudo-random number
   generation, countdowns and delays, buffered file support with
   critical error handling, environment scanning, ASCIIZ string
   functions, keyboard support, mouse support, sound generation,
   control over Break, loading of BSAVE-format files, and more.

   Source code (MASM 6.0) provided upon registration. Registered
   owners may upgrade to later versions for $10.



BASUPD: BASIC Update Library. Free.

   This library provides routines for QuickBasic 4.x which mimic
   new functions and commands provided by other Microsoft BASIC
   compilers, such as PDS 7.x and Visual Basic for DOS. These
   include disk routines and a powerful selection of time and
   date functions.

   Full source code is included.

BASWIZ: The BASIC Wizard's Library. Shareware ($35).

   This is a library for Microsoft BASIC compilers: QuickBasic,
   PDS, and VB/DOS. It contains an equation solver; far string
   support (even for QuickBasic!); powerful file handling, with
   buffering, critical error handling, and sharing support;
   telecommunications for COM1-COM4; memory management and
   pointers; a powerful virtual windowing system; a high-res
   timer and delay system (accurate to milliseconds); more!

   Extensive graphics support is built in. It handles all
   standard modes: MDA, Hercules (no TSR needed), CGA, EGA, VGA,
   SuperVGA (Tseng 4000 and VESA), Epson-compatible dot matrix
   printers, and HP-compatible laser printers. Printer graphics
   output can be previewed on the display. Special non-standard
   VGA modes are included, providing up to 360x480 graphics in
   256 colors on ordinary VGAs. Fonts, polygons, multi-colored
   text-- it's all in here, and more.

   BasWiz math support will handle even the most demanding
   applications. It extends BASIC's own math and provides two
   other alternatives: fraction math and BCD support. With BCD,
   you can have up to 254 digits! This is no minimal four-
   function BCD package, either. It includes a wide range of
   support, including many trig functions, constants, and
   conversions. Equally good for huge and tiny numbers.

   Source code (MASM 6.0 and BASIC) provided on registration.
   Registered owners may upgrade to later versions for $10. Well
   over a megabyte of sources! Great learning tool.



BCMD: Better Commands for MS-DOS and DR DOS. Shareware ($29.95).

   BCMD is a set of new and improved DOS commands designed to
   coexist with your existing DOS command processor for total
   compatibility with your existing applications. New utilities
   include calculators and calendars, keyboard enhancers, text
   file processors, assorted filters, and the ability to attach
   descriptions to files (NDOS and 4DOS compatible), among other
   things. There are many improvements to existing DOS commands
   as well. For example, the BCOPY command allows you to copy
   many files to many locations, with exception specifications:

      BCOPY (*.TXT *.DOC) (A: B:) /E README.*

   This example copies all .TXT and .DOC files in the current
   directory, except for README files, to both A: and B: drives.
   You can also specify quiet mode, prompting for confirmation,
   the desired case of filespecs, file attributes, "test" mode,
   and much more. Similar capabilities are included in all
   applicable commands. Help is available for each command by
   using the /? switch, as well as through an online reference.

   The current version, plus a free upgrade to the next version,
   is provided on registration. Registered owners may upgrade to
   later versions for $10.

BPP: A BASIC PreProcessor. Free.

   This utility provides a powerful meta-language for PDS,
   QuickBasic, Visual Basic for DOS, PowerBASIC, and even the
   QBASIC provided with DOS 5.0. It processes your code before
   the compiler gets to it, allowing conditional compilation,
   underscores within variable names, flexible "include" files
   (which may even contain SUB and FUNCTION definitions), name
   substitutions, and more. C programmers have had preprocessors
   for years-- now there's one for BASIC too!



EXECOM: EXE-to-COM converter. Free.

   Like EXE2BIN, this utility converts .EXE files to .COM files.
   It's smaller and faster, though, as well as offering a few
   additional conveniences.

   Source code (MASM) is included.



EXETOOL: EXE Tool. Free.

   This program examines .EXE files for validity and can tell
   you whether the .EXE was designed for use with Microsoft
   Windows. If the .EXE file is determined to be too long, as it
   might be if you got it using an older file transfer protocol,
   you are given the option of truncating it to the right size.



IBRARY: Library for the ASIC compiler. Shareware ($8).

   This library is for ASIC 4.0 and later versions. If you
   haven't seen ASIC, it's a shareware BASIC compiler which
   provides both command-line and editor/environment support. It
   can produce .COM, .EXE, and .OBJ files. For more info about
   ASIC, write its author:

      David A. Visti
      80/20 Software
      P.O. Box 2952
      Raleigh, NC 27602-2952

   Ibrary contains over 200 routines which add to the ASIC
   compiler. It provides support for the full range of color
   graphics modes: SCREEN 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, N0, and N1.
   The latter two modes are special 256-color modes which
   provide up to 360x480 on standard VGAs! A large set of math
   extensions, equipment detection routines, mouse support, DOS
   file and directory handling, cursor on/off/info, screen save
   and restore, DOS output, string functions, keyboard shift and
   toggle info, and other goodies.

   A printed manual and source code for Ibrary (MASM 6.0)
   provided on registration. Registered owners may upgrade to
   later versions for $1.

KEYCTL: Keyboard Control. Free.

   For AT-class machines only (286, 386, 486, etc), this utility
   allows you to speed up your keyboard (or make it less
   sensitive for kids, etc). You can also swap the positions of
   the CapsLock and Left Ctrl keys, useful for civilizing the
   101-key "enhanced" keyboard.

   Assembly language source code (MASM) is included.



LIBWIZ: The Library Wizard's *BASIC Library Manager*. Free.

   This is a management tool for handling and customizing BASIC
   libraries. It allows ready creation of subsets of existing
   libraries, automatically resolving any interdependencies for
   you. Tools for updating and extracting from libraries are
   also included.

   LibWiz is strongly recommended for my BasWiz and PBClone
   libraries, due to the vast number of routines involved.



OBJTOOL: OBJ Tool. Shareware ($10).

   This must be the ultimate tool for manipulating .OBJ files.
   You can select files for inclusion or exclusion using
   wildcards, time, date, and size comparisons, and even the
   results of a search through the .OBJ file. View the file's
   stats, rename publics, externals, and default libraries,
   delete default libraries and languages, check for validity,
   repair checksum errors-- ObjTool has it all. Useful for
   reducing the size of libraries, resolving conflicting routine
   names, patching .OBJs and just snooping around!

   Registered owners may upgrade to later versions for $1.

PASWIZ: The Pascal Wizard's Library. Shareware ($25).

   This is a library for Turbo Pascal and compatibles. It
   provides input handling (keyboard, mouse, and joystick),
   music, BCD math, archive directories, string and math
   enhancements, and other goodies.

   The math routines provide a numeric expression evaluator
   which allows you to convert equations into numbers at run
   time. The math capabilities of Pascal have been expanded
   significantly with new trig, inverse trig, hyperbolic trig,
   and other functions. For the ultimate in numeric precision,
   BCD math is also provided, allowing you to manipulate numbers
   of up to 254 digits-- not just with the basic four functions,
   but trig, square roots, factorials, constants with hundreds
   of digits of precision, etc; formatted output can be done to
   your specs. You can place the decimal point anywhere you
   want, so this works equally well with very large and very
   small numbers. String support includes compression,
   encryption, fuzzy comparisons, and other goodies. The music
   manager works like the BASIC PLAY language and BBS "ANSI
   music". Archive routines allow getting full directory info
   from .ARC, .ARJ, .LZH, .PAK, .ZIP, .ZOO, and self-extracting
   .EXE archives.

   Source code (MASM 6.0 and Pascal) provided on registration.
   Registered owners may upgrade to later versions for $10.



PBBACK: The PB Backwards-Compatible Library. Shareware ($25).

   This library is like my PBClone library, but is compatible
   with the full range of QuickBasic compilers: QB 1.0 - 4.5. It
   is much easier to set up than PBClone but does not support
   all newer compiler features and offers some 300 routines. See
   the description for PBClone, below.



PBCLON: The PBClone Library. Shareware ($35).

   This is a library for Microsoft BASIC compilers: QuickBasic
   4.x, BASCOM and PDS, and Visual BASIC for DOS. It is the
   successor to my old ADVBAS library. With over 610 routines,
   this library covers a little bit of everything: mouse and
   joystick support, SoundBlaster, disk wrangling, string
   mangling, keyboard input, equipment detection, graphics, a
   wide variety of display management, directory searching, text
   compression, viewing archive directories (.ARC, .ARJ, .EXE,
   .LZH, .PAK, .ZIP, .ZOO), matrix math, dates, times and
   countdowns, sorts, binary searches, graphics, and... well,
   it's hard to describe such a collection other than to say
   "it's probably in here"!

   Source code (MASM 6.0 and BASIC) provided on registration.
   Registered owners may upgrade to later versions for $10.
   Nearly two megabytes of sources! Great learning tool.

PBCWIN: The PBClone Windows Library. Shareware (1993: $19.95).

   This is a DLL for use in programming for Microsoft Windows.
   It is oriented specifically towards Visual Basic, but can be
   used with other Windows languages that support DLLs if you
   know what you're doing. There are 79 routines in the first
   version, including bit manipulation, array initialization,
   PEEK, POKE, and SWAP routines, checksums and CRCs, equipment
   information, string testing, and more.

   Source code (MS C 7.0) provided on registration. Registered
   owners may upgrade to later versions for $10.



PBWIZ: The PowerBASIC Wizard's Library. Shareware (1993: $25).

   This is a library of over 325 routines for Spectra's
   PowerBASIC 3.0 compiler. It includes archive viewing (for
   ARC, ARJ, EXE, LZH, PAK, ZIP, ZOO), disk directory viewing,
   256-color graphics modes (320x200 and 360x480 on any VGA,
   more on SVGA or VESA), read and write .BMP pictures, mouse
   and joystick and keyboard control, EMS and XMS memory access,
   equipment detection, extended math and string routines, an
   equation solver, ANSI emulation, SoundBlaster support, more.

   Source code (MASM 6.0 and BASIC) provided on registration.
   Registered owners may upgrade to later versions for $10.



QBWIZ: The QuickBasic Wizard's Library. Free.

   A collection of routines which allow you to access internal
   variables for QuickBasic 4.x, BASCOM 6.x, and PDS 7.x. You
   can retrieve the screen mode, display adapter type, DEF SEG
   setting, I/O redirection status, current screen colors, and
   many other useful values.



TEXTRIS: A word game. Shareware ($7.95).

   Textris is a little like Tetris and a little like Scrabble.
   Random letters fall from the sky. Fit them together to make
   words for points. Unused letters remain behind, cluttering
   the arena until at last there is no space left to build new
   words. Good spelling practice and addictive fun! Requires an
   EGA, VGA or better display.

   Dictionary editor provided upon registration. Registered
   owners may upgrade to later versions for $1.

VCLOCK: Video clock TSR. Free.

   This tiny TSR provides a running display of the time. You may
   specify screen position, 12 or 24 hours, whether to display
   seconds, the colors to use, and other parameters. Two
   versions are provided-- one for 8088 PCs and one for later
   machines.

   Source code (MASM) is included.

