This constitutes a bibliography of some of the references used
in creating the PBWiz library. They are listed in no particular
order. I might note that many of these references contain
incorrect information on one point or another and that they
frequently contradict each other. Such are the joys of assembly
programming. Comments reflect my personal opinions on the text.



"The New Peter Norton Programmer's Guide to the IBM PC &
PS/2".  2nd Ed, 1988, by Peter Norton and Richard Wilton.
Microsoft Press.
-- Often contains inadequate detail and is unusually
error-prone. Some of the information is unique to this source,
however, so it has its value.

"Microsoft Mouse Programmer's Reference".  2nd Ed, 1991.
Microsoft Press.
-- Bizarrely, the primary examples are for interpreted BASIC
(BASICA or GWBASIC). However, there are matching examples for
QuickBASIC, C, and MASM. This is a comprehensive reference. You
do have to be careful about using many of the routines, as older
mouse drivers are common, and they don't support all of the
newer routines. Unfortunately, no information is provided as to
the release date of any of the mouse functions...

"COMPUTE!'s Mapping the IBM PC and PCjr".  1985, COMPUTE!
Publications, Inc.
-- An old but indispensable reference. The memory map, port
reference, and low-level support chip information are very good.

"Programmer's Guide to PC & PS/2 Video Systems".  1987, by
Richard Wilton. Microsoft Press.
-- A terrific reference on video from MDA to VGA. The example
program for putting the Hercules adapter into graphics mode is
rather buggy, however.

"Supercharged Bit-Mapped Graphics".  1992, by Steve Rimmer.
Windcrest Books (an imprint of Tab Books, which in turn is a
division of McGraw-Hill, Inc).
-- A quite decent text on various image formats, including .BMP,
.MAC, .PCX, .GIF and others. Source listings in C and assembly
language.

"Power Graphics Programming".  1989, by Michael Abrash.  Que
Corporation.
-- Terrific book, well written, a "must have" if you are
interested in programming the EGA and/or VGA at a low level.
Superb.

"The MS-DOS Encyclopedia".  1988.  Microsoft Press.
-- Encyclopedic it is. Every serious assembly programmer should
have a copy. Covers DOS itself, DOS interrupts, communications,
TSRs, and lots of handy articles by the best in the business.
The BIOS is ignored, however. It covers through DOS 3.0 and is
getting a bit dated, but is still a good thing to have.

"The Programmer's PC Sourcebook".  2nd Ed, 1991, by Thom
Hogan.  Microsoft Press.
-- An astonishing collection of data and tables. With
comprehensive scope but no depth, this reference can tease by
providing insufficient detail. Still, a priceless work. Get one
immediately, or two if you have a friend.

"Algorithms & Data Structures".  1986, by Niklaus Wirth.
Prentice-Hall, Inc.
-- Terse text with rather ghastly Modula-2 source listings. One
of the few places where sorting and data structures are covered
even moderately well, however. If you need to do sorts or
b-trees, it's a mandatory text.

"Sound Blaster: The Official Book".  1993.  McGraw-Hill, Inc.
-- Not as complete as one might like. Most of the book is concerned with
   idiot-level end-user stuff. An appendix details the hardware interface in
   an ineffectual manner, and the SB software drivers in a manner which is
   mostly sufficient for technical folks.
