This constitutes a bibliography of some of the references used in creating
the BASWIZ library.  They are listed in no particular order.  I might note
that many of these references contain incorrect information on one point or
another and that they frequently contradict each other.  Such are the joys of
assembly programming.  Comments reflect my personal opinions on the text.



"Undocumented DOS: A Programmer's Guide to Reserved MS-DOS Functions and
Data Structures".  1990.  Andrew Schulman, Raymond J. Michels, Jim Kyle, Tim
Paterson, David Maxey, Ralf Brown.  Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., Inc.
-- Useful for work that requires very low-level DOS handling.  Little new or
   interesting for my purposes.  Overpriced.

"The New Peter Norton Programmer's Guide to the IBM PC & PS/2".  2nd Ed,
1988, by Peter Norton and Richard Wilton.  Microsoft Press.
-- Often contains inadequate detail and is unusually error-prone.  Some of
   the information is hard to find elsewhere, however.

"COMPUTE!'s Mapping the IBM PC and PCjr".  1985, COMPUTE! Publications, Inc.
-- An old but indispensable reference.  The memory map, port reference, and
   low-level support chip information are very good.

"Programmer's Guide to PC & PS/2 Video Systems".  1987, by Richard Wilton.
Microsoft Press.
-- A terrific reference on video from MDA to VGA.  The example program for
   putting the Hercules adapter into graphics mode is rather buggy, though
   (at least in my edition).

"The Waite Group's MS-DOS Developer's Guide".  2nd Ed, 1989, by The Waite
Group, Inc.  Howard W. Sams & Co.
-- An excellent reference on all sorts of low-level programming.  TSRs,
   video, numeric coprocessor, communications, and lots more is covered.

"The MS-DOS Encyclopedia".  1988.  Microsoft Press.
-- Encyclopedic it is.  Every serious assembly programmer should have a copy.
   Covers DOS itself, DOS interrupts, TSRs, communications, lots of handy
   articles by the best in the business.  The BIOS is ignored, however.

"Disk Operating System Version 3.00 Operating Reference".  1984.  IBM Corp.
-- Useful for getting the scoop as IBM sees it.  Good for clearing up
   contradictions in other texts, but not particularly vital.  Way overpriced.

"Practical Microcomputer Programming: The Intel 8080".  1976, by W. J.
Weller, A. V. Shatzel, and H. Y. Nice.
-- You'd think a book this dated would be handy for starting fires, hmmm?
   In truth, it contains some very neat techniques that apply to modern
   problems.  Keep it in mind when browsing that used book store!

"Numerical Analysis with the TI 99/4A, Commodore 64, Apple II+/IIe and TRS-80
Model I/III".  1984, by H. R. Meck.  Prentice-Hall, Inc.
-- Another oldie-but-goodie, this book contains a large number of useful
   numerical algorithms, complete with source code in BASIC.  Nicely written.

"Bit-Mapped Graphics".  1990, by Steve Rimmer.  Windcrest Books (an imprint
of Tab Books, which in turn is a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc).
-- A quite decent text on various image formats, including .MAC, .PCX, .GIF
   and others.  Source listings in C and assembly language.

"How to Solve it by Computer".  1982, by R.G. Dromey, Prentice-Hall Inc.
-- A fantastic book covering a little of everything: data structures,
   sorting, pseudo-random numbers, and various numeric calculations.
   Examples are frequently given in Pascal.  Very nice.

"Numerical Analysis with the TI99/4A, Commodore 64, Apple II+/IIe and TRS-80
 Model I/III".  1984, by H.R. Meck, Prentice-Hall Inc.
-- A promising but irritating reference.  It covers a wide range of numerical
   equations with implementations in BASIC.  However, the text is terse, the
   BASIC code is ugly, and the examples make assumptions about the available
   precision rather than relying on an error term.

"Handbook of Chemistry and Physics". 42nd edition, 1960, The Chemical Rubber
 Publishing Co.
-- A thorough reference containing tables on just about everything.  I use it
   primarily to doublecheck that the math functions are returning proper
   results.  A good thing to have-- try library and college book sales.

Programmer's Journal.  This magazine contains a wealth of technical
information, most notably an ongoing EGA/VGA graphics column by Michael
Abrash which is utterly superb.

Hart & Cheney... a number of the math routines are derived from a C library
that I came across.  This library contained no information as to author or
origin, aside from frequent mention of "Hart & Cheney", apparently the
reference from which the coefficients of the equations were derived.
