'FX Documentation version 1.1
'Revised 1/24/97

Distribution
------------
The shareware version of FX may be freely distributed 
providing no changes are made to the program or its support files. 
The Shareware version of FX should have the accompanying files:

SWFX.EXE      - The shareware FX program.
VARIOUS.SFX   - A sample sound effect file.
PLAYSFXM.BAS  - Qbasic(r) example program.
PLAYSFXS.BAS  - Qbasic(r) example program.
TARGETS.BAS   - Qbasic(r) Demo game.
FX.TXT        - This file.
ORDERFRM.TXT  - Order form for the full FX program.

Vendors please contact me (see Technical support) if you plan to
distribute this program so I can make sure you have the most recent
version and keep you supplied with updates.

Introduction
------------
Thanks for downloading my program. You have the shareware version
of 'FX' the sound FX(effects) creator.  FX allows you to program the
sound card on your PC to make an unlimited number of sound effects
that you easily load and play into your  Qbasic(r), QuickBASIC(r),
Pascal or C programs.

I have been making games in Qbasic(r) for a while now. QBroids, QBmatrix,
QB Invaders and Defender are a few you have probably seen around. One thing
that can make a program really impressive is good sound. So I have
been looking for an easy way to add sound to my games without resorting
to libraries or a huge number of cryptic subroutines. Just a clean easy way
to make descent sound effects.

I tried a bunch of stuff and found that using the FM portion of a sound card
was the easiest and FASTEST way (code wise) to make good sound effects.
Defender was the first of my programs to use this method. The only problem
was the sub routines were big and programming the FM registers was time
consuming.

That was until now. FX uses a graphical interface to change the values
of the registers in the FM portion of the sound card. Even without the
slightest idea of how the FM portion of a sound card works you can make
sound effects. Just click and listen! And besides the ease of use, FX has
other features to make editing and using sound effects easy. All you
need is a VGA capable PC, a Microsoft(r) compatable mouse, and a Sound Card.


Starting FX
-----------
You most likely got FX zipped up so you should have these files :

SWFX.EXE      - The shareware FX program.
VARIOUS.SFX   - A sample sound effect file.
PLAYSFXM.BAS  - Playing an .SFX file from Main.
PLAYSFXS.BAS  - Playing an .SFX file using a Sub.
TARGETS.BAS   - Demo game.
FX.TXT        - This file.
ORDERFRM.TXT  - Order form for the full FX program.

If you have registered then you have this file too :

FX.EXE       - Full FX version.

For DOS users I recommend putting FX.EXE in a directory that is in
specified in the path. This way the program can be started from whatever
directory you are working in at the time and make it easy to edit the
.SFX files you will be playing in your programs. Files are saved in the
current working directory. Just type FX to start the program or add a
filename to start FX and load the .SFX file. For example "FX VARIOUS".

For Win95 users it is easiest to make .SFX files registered. To do this
just double click on any .SFX file. Win95 will ask what program to open the
file with. Find and select FX.EXE. From then on clicking on any .SFX file
will Run FX and load the selected file.


Using the FX interface
----------------------

The FX screen is made up of a file menu bar, scroll bars and buttons.

Click on the Menu Bar text to use that feature.
Open    - Opens an SFX file.
Save    - Save the current file  (registered version).
Save AS - Save current file under a new name (registered version).
Copy    - Copies current sound effect number to another.
Quit    - Exits program.

The scroll bars can be manipulated in three ways. You can just click on
the arrow buttons to increment or de-increment the value. Holding the
arrow button will change the values without clicking. Or for fast
adjustments, click inside of the scroll bar. 

The Play button will play the current sound effect number. Or press the 
right mouse button. 

The Stop fx button will stop all sound effects. This will be useful
if you produce a very annoying long lasting sound effect. 


How the FM synthesizer works
----------------------------
The mono FM synthesizer contains 18 operator cells. Each operator cell
consists of three parts :

  +--------------------+
  |    Oscillator      |
  +---------|----------+
  +---------|----------+
  | Envelope Generator |
  +---------|----------+
  +---------|----------+
  |  Level Controller  |
  +---------|----------+
            |
          output

The oscillator has these adjustable settings :

The F-Number (Frequency Number 0 to 1023). See next.
The Block(Octave 0 to 7). The Block and F-number are used to
  adjust the frequency of the signal. The output frequency of an
  operator can be calculated with the following formula :
  Frequency = 50000 *F-Number * 2 ^ Block - 20
The Frequency Multiplier (Multiplier 0 to 15) multiplies the frequency of the
  signal generated by the value selected.
The Frequency Vibrato (Vibrato 0=off,1=on) adds a small fluctuation in
  the frequency of the signal.
The Modulation Feedback (Feedback 0 to 7) sets the amount the modulator
  output that is fed back into the input.
The Wave Form (WaveForm 0 to 3) allows the use of different sine wave forms.
  0 = sine wave. 1 = half sine, 2 = rectified sine , 3 = cliped sine. 

The Envelope Generator has six adjustable settings. Four of which can be
set by FX.

The Attack Rate (Attack 0 to 15). The input signal begins at a level of
  zero. Then the signal rises to it's maximum level at a rate set by this
  value. An operator with its Attack set at zero will not produce a signal.
The Decay Rate (Decay 0 to 15). After the input signal reaches the
  maximum level, it drops to the sustain level at a rate set by this
  value. A Decay rate of 0 will produce a continuous sound.
The Sustain Level (Sustain 0 to 15). This setting sets the sustain level
  for the signal before dropping to the release level.
The Release Level (Release 0 to 15). This setting sets the rate at which
  the signal drops from the sustain rate to 0.

The Level Controller has three adjustable settings. Two of which can
be set FX.

The Total Level (Attenuation 0 to 63). This is the volume setting
 of the operator. With additive synthesis, both level settings of
 the operators determine the volume of the final signal. With FM
 Synthesis, the final volume is determined by the level setting of
 the carrier.

The Amplitude Vibrato (Tremolo 0=off,1=on) causes a small fluctuation
 in the intensity of the signal.

The operator cells are organized into pairs, with one cell
serving as the modulator and the other as the carrier. In FM synthesis
mode, (Connection = 0) the modulator cell modulates the
carrier cell, which results in an output waveform from the carrier cell.
   +---------------+   +---------------+
   |               |   |               |
   |   Modulator   +---+    Carrier    +--- output
   |     Cell      |   |     Cell      |
   |               |   |               |
   +---------------+   +---------------+
           
In Additive synthesis mode (Connection = 1) the modulator cell output
and the carrier cell output are added together. 

   +---------------+   
   |               |   
   |   Modulator   +--+   
   |     Cell      |  |  
   |               |  |  
   +---------------+  +--- output  
   +---------------+  |
   |               |  |
   |    Carrier    +--+ 
   |     Cell      |
   |               |
   +---------------+   


There are nine pairs of operators. This allows the nine sound effects to
be played at once. By selecting different operating pairs (Channel 0 to 8)
you can play multiple sound effects in FX and your programs.

For more detailed information on the FM synthesizer. I recommend the
book "The Sound Blaster Book" by Josha Munnik and Eric Oostendorp. Thanks
to that book this program was made possible.


Playing multiple sound effects simultaneously
---------------------------------------------
To play more than one sound at a time in a Qbasic(r) program, or FX, 
take advantage of the FM synthesizers multiple channels. There are total 
of nine channels which can be selected with the Channel scroll bar in FX.
If an application needs only nine sound effects and the sound effects stop 
on their own, then the course of action is simple, set each sound effect on
 a different channel. The channel information is saved in the .SFX file. 
If an application will need more than nine sound effects then some sounds 
have to play on the same channel. My  suggestion is to have sounds that will
 probably not happen at the same time share the same channel.

Play sound effect number 19 in FX. This sound effect uses channel one.
Play any other sound effect (except 24 and 25, they both use the same
channel as 19) to listen to two sounds at once.


Stopping Sounds within a program.
---------------------------------

When the Connection = 0, setting Decay to zero on the Modulator and
the Carrier will produce a sound that is continuous. When the
Connection = 1 , setting Decay to 0 for either operator will produce
a continuous sound for that operator.

This can be desirable like for UFO noises(24) or the helicopter sound(19) in
the Varoius.sfx file. To stop these sounds within a Qbasic(r) program a 
blank sound must be made using the same channel. That is, setting everything 
to zero except perhaps the Channel which must set to the same channel of the 
sound effect you want to stop. Setting everything to zero resets the channel.

An example of this is in Various.sfx. Play effect number 24 (a continuous
UFO sound) then play effect number 25 (reset) to stop the sound.


Playing an .SFX file in Qbasic
-----------------------------
See PLAYSFXM.BAS - Playing an .SFX file from Main.
See PLAYSFXS.BAS - Playing an .SFX file using a Sub Routine.
See TARGETS.BAS - Fun game using FX sounds.

Technical support :
-------------------

Having trouble with FX?  Let me know and I'll try to correct it. 

CompuServe :74734,2203
Internet   :TimTruman@aol.com
AOL        :TimTruman


Registering FX
--------------

If you like what you see and would like the full FX version:

Print out the ORDERFRM.TXT file and send with a check or money order to:

 Tim Truman
 110 Homestead Ave.
 Springfield, MA 01151
 USA

FX will be under constant improvement. If you would like to see
a feature added or improved let me know. If you register I will send
you the next two revisions and any new example programs at no charge. 

Thanks again, Happy FXing.


Microsoft(r), Qbasic(r) and QuickBASIC(r) are registered trademarks of
microsoft corporation.

